Well, Dr. Burns had a nice collection of dried
poisonous plant specimens stored in Francis Hall
over on campus. That's where he taught plant
toxicology. And he had accumulated these. So
those were among the things that were to be moved.
He
assigned, well, that was one of the, I can't
remember. I was trying to think of who it was.
It was involved with that. Helms was involved. who
I think, he was probably the main one that was, got
the idea that we'll just switch these, you know,
we'll change the plants and the labels out. Won't
that be entertaining then for the next class that
Dr. Burns, because Dr. Burns, the only reason that
that would even occur maybe to someone would be
because, Dr. Burns was quite a storyteller and
with most of those specimens he would, he could go
on at some length just holding a specimen before
the group and not only talking about what the
effects would be but where it was exactly that he
got that specimen and what the weather was like on
that particular day. I mean he could just He could
just amaze you, you know, going back in time and
getting into great details. And so the thought was
that, well, he would pull out St. John's Ward or
something like that, you know, and he would just
look at the label and he would start talking about
it. And maybe if you had, if something entirely
different, obviously different, was in the
folder, if he didn't look at it, well, it would
be... amusing into one mindset. So that was done,
but then, of course, Dr. Burns, once he got out
there, well, he went through each one of them. Oh,
he checked them. He checked everything, yeah. I
know my involvement, I developed a new
appreciation for the thoroughness and
meticulous nature of a man because I was assigned
to count to inventory all of the rubber stoppers,
which, when you say that, you think, well, an hour,
maybe. My gosh, he had rubber stoppers, and he had
reserves,
and he wanted everything counted, you know, in
every size. He wanted all of the different sizes. I
spent, I don't remember how long, but boy, and I
tried, one of the reasons I spent that long was
because shortly after I started, I kind of
generalized and estimated, and I gave him a report
when I was going off duty, and so when I came back a
couple of days later, I had some time. He had a
little session with me, and he wanted me to
understand that My initial count was not
satisfactory, and he did not intend an estimate.
He could estimate. He wanted a count.
When you were in vet school, was there an honor
system? Yes. As far as you know, did students
follow it? Well, I lost a classmate in my freshman
year. uh for cheating and this was done by the uh and
there was guilt the honor council there was uh-huh
were there others that you may have known about
that were not caught not to my knowledge did you all
sign an honor pledge yes uh-huh was there an
explanation early early in the first year to
explain what the honor system covered and
everything
I've wondered why shouldn't the Corps have done
that long ago? Yeah, this was part of that first
lecture, I think, with Al Price. I believe that's
when we got that. I
presume you're very proud of your A&M veterinary
training. Why are you proud of it? What are the
foundations of that pride?
Well,
the faculty that taught me in vet school was, of
course at the time I was a student, well I respected
them as faculty, but It was really in years after
that that I think I developed my sense of
appreciation for them and respect for them as it
became fully developed. You know, we had only
30-something faculty. And so all of the
department heads, for example, all of the
department heads in the vet school had
substantial teaching loads and in general they
taught the lead courses in their discipline and so
to be able to go through with a group of very very
respected faculty of that stature, I've always
felt very fortunate that I was able to do it. You
know, really and truly at the time that I finished,
I had no way to know from a comparative standpoint
how my education compared with what it might have
been in some other state. But as time has passed,
well, I've developed my appreciation for my
education at Texas A&M has been increased.
Commencement, veterinary commencement was
held, describe it as much as you recall, your year.
Where was it held? Well, it was in G. Raleigh White,
which was the new gym. And we were seated on the
floor, the main floor, I remember, and this was
in... Was it just for vet school? No, no, it was...
Y'all were part of the larger one. Uh-huh.
And this is the spring of 57. 57. Mm-hmm. And it was,
we were on, this was on Saturday morning. I don't
think, I think that was the only one. And who came?
The only commencement. Who came as your
supporters? Well, my parents were there and Ann's
parents were there. Oh, now you had met Ann by then.
Yeah, well, we married after my, at the end of my,
well, on Saturday. August 31st before my last
year. Oh, I forgot. So she was down here for that. So
where did you all live that fourth year? Well, we
started out living in a duplex on Church Street
there just where it's now gone for the, well, it was
one block west, half a block west of A&M
Presbyterian Church. belonged to Zubik. It was an
apartment, a little duplex that belonged to Mr.
Zubik. But after, in October, I heard about one of
the new large animal clinicians needing, looking
for a married vet student with no children who
would move in with him and look after his little
boy. So this was Bill Romaine and little Bill. And
so we did that. Lived over on Jersey Street and
across the street from the basketball coach that
had been brought in from the northeast that was to
oh yeah yeah yeah um the one before shelby before
shelby between rogers and shelby i can't think of
it right now but anyway we lived over there across
the street from him on jersey street and uh And so
when, how did you, what were your future dreams
when you graduated? What did you think you were
going to do? Well, I had already agreed to accept to
take the instructorship in anatomy. And my plan
was to,
at that point, was to evaluate
education as a career possibility and
but I still felt I felt it at the time that I stayed
and made the decision that I still felt compelled
to go into practice and evaluate that further. Now
this this job this instructorship what was the pay
of that? Well it was
it was fifty one hundred dollars for twelve months
and uh... uh... dr armistead got into trouble with
that as i learned later because pat hubert who had
graduated two or three years before was making
only five thousand in large animal clinic
and uh... So as you walked across the stage, it was
then every name called, every hand shaken,
and you felt optimistic about your future. Yeah.
If you were now giving advice to the College of
Veterinary Medicine leadership, You're now
their consultant. You're giving them advice
about undergraduate or non-graduate
post-DVM training. What advice would you give
them about veterinary instruction, the DVM
instruction?
What to hold on to and what to... I'd
have to think about that, I believe, because, see,
it is so different now to anything. And I know it's
different, but I don't know the particulars of
that difference. See, there are,
the students
have, they interact with, with many more faculty
members. And only
a portion of those faculty are
knowledgeable, really knowledgeable, of the
profession that the students are preparing for.
Because they're not veterinarians. They are
research people. In many instances, most
instances, they're quite successful in their
research endeavors. And they are doing this as
part of the obligations of their position. And
that's where we've evolved to, I guess. So I don't
know.
Best I can. that I've been able to determine in the
last 10 years of observing that this seems to, you
know, I don't see any major deficiencies coming
from it, but I really don't know. Alright, then the
last thing I have to ask is what feelings do you
carry in your heart for Texas A&M today?
Well, It's just A&M is a part of me.
I'm not a rah-rah type supporter, if you will.
But
what happens is very important in the way of things
being done well. You know, I'm so pleased that we
have had the president we've had in the last few
years. I can see it takes no imagination at all to
see how that tragedy could have been visited upon
tragedy with this bonfire thing if we had not had
the right person there. And I think he was about as
right as I can think of anyone. any other person or
any other traits that I would have liked to have
seen in command at that time.
I'm
very pleased and have just really been amazed
through the years at how the student body has
continued at Texas A&M, the student body has
continued to be hold the values, hold the same
things important that we did when I was in that
small group of chauvinistic male students,
non-segregated. I mean totally segregated. What
creates that spirit? Why? It's a puzzle to me. I
have spent a lot of time thinking about that. Now
certainly there are a lot of other influences that
the new students go through. I've never been to a
fish camp, for example. I'm curious what the
environment is there. I can't help but wonder if
fish camp isn't a several day enactment
of what we used to get in the halls of what I got in the
hallways of dorm 14 after CQ each night for the
first month. That was routine. We were in CQ
studying until 10.30 or 11 o'clock on Sunday and
Wednesday night. And then we would have anywhere
from a half hour to two or three hours in the halls
with one of the upperclassmen at a time holding
forth a discourse on this or that or the other about
A&M and what you shall do and what you shall not do
and so on.
Can A&M Spirit really be described to somebody
that hasn't experienced it? I can't imagine it. It
can be described, but I can't imagine there being
an appreciation for what has been described.
You know, we were in... Ann and I were... Ann
accompanied me to a meeting in Chicago, and we were
there when the bonfire collapsed. And...
The news accounts and the interviews seem to
communicate to some of the people on the street
types there in Chicago. I know when we were on our
way out and we got to, we took a cab out to O'Hare and
when we unloaded our luggage, well, there was an
A&M sticker on stuck on one of them and there was a
black man one of the people working there who saw
that and asked us about the bonfire and it was
almost he was emotional about it about the tragedy
of it and he expressed a curiosity about that
school and asked two or three questions about is it
really true that the students do this or and I was
struck by by how you
know all of the interviewing and all of the time
that had been devoted to that that it that some of
the people were getting a little bit of an insight.
Of course, many others only saw it as akin
to a college prank gone awry type thing.
What I'm looking for is the form that you and I need
to sign. And I believe that I have, for the first
time, fail to bring one. So I'll have to get that out
to you.
So let's close with what are your hopes for A&M
future, particularly in veterinary medicine?
Well,
I'd like hope that they're able to
maintain the course that they're on right now I
guess I don't see a need for well they're little
things but I won't I don't see that those need to be
they're not that important but when you when I look
at the the course that the vet school is on, we have a
real strong,
the students are adequately educated before they
get to the clinics. They have a tremendous
clinical education program. And
there
is truly a a broad based research program it's both
basic and clinical so you're on a real good course
right now I we
could talk about them taking leadership in in
going to new forms of education where of
veterinary education where parts of it are done
away from the main campus. That's for a later
generation than me. I'm too much of a
traditionalist to be advocating
that.
I'd like to see them really continuing on in the
direction that they are. There is a, you know, I do
have a concern, I guess, for veterinary medicine
in general and that is I don't know where the
faculties of the future will come from other
than the people whose primary strength is
research. I do not feel that veterinary education
can be successful without there being a core of
veterinarians involved as teachers. And there
are,
it's becoming
less and less attractive, well veterinary
academia is becoming less and less competitive
all the time and this is not from the standpoint of
money. is salary differentials. That's not the
big issue. The big issue is the problem with,
well, longevity. You know, I still feel in my
discussions even in recent years that veterinary
medicine, I think, could prosper if we could just
get tenure completely out of the picture and just
have i think that there would be a lot of people in
veterinary medicine who would be interested in
going into academia without any lifetime
assurances of employment or anything that's the
way i that was never a consideration for me in
whether I would go into academia or not, was that,
well, if I do that and if I can get by the first few
years, I'll be set for life. That's not part of it at
all. But, you know, the thing that's so crippling
with the tenure system is you're either in or
you're out in a few years. And with the
opportunities in industry and a number of other in
private diagnostic laboratories and research
labs and things like that.
There's no problem with that. Neither are they
guaranteed a lifetime employment. But also, they
are not treated as second-class citizens after
year six or seven or whatever. But you're, in
summary, you're optimistic about the program
today and where it's headed. Well, I am, uh-huh, as
far as the iteration that we have here for
veterinary medicine. But I am, the one concern I
have is,
to address the need to
eliminate this big problem in recruiting and
attracting bright young people into a veterinary
career. We've had two or three of the people that I
was involved with most recently in their training
who have just been Well, they weren't really just
bought by industry, but they were offered very
lucrative situations. But the final nail was
driven by the uncertainty of what tenure would do.
Yet when they went to their jobs, they did not go to a
lifetime position.
And so somehow we need to be able to address that.
I'm sure that's not just in veterinary medicine. I
was enticed into academia, as I see it, at the
beginning of a an expansion of veterinary medical
education in North America you know we had a number
of veterinary schools that were established in
the sixties and seventies they required more
faculty and we had of course before that well a
number of the existing veterinary schools
increased their enrollment which required more
faculty and Armistead was one of the visionaries
that saw that well these 34 faculty members aren't
going to be equal to the task of classes of 100. And
where are we going to get the people? So he had
already started these instructorships, and that
was the best he had at that time.
Because the pool of faculty had gotten very, very
small. And I'm concerned that we're going to be
looking at that in the future here in this country
and at A&M even, that one of these days you're going
to wake up to the fact we're going to need some more
faculty. And where are we going to get them? This is
not something you do in a year or two. Armistead was
starting it, and other places were starting it in
the mid-50s. And yet it really wasn't critical
Didn't become critical until the mid 60s. So about
a 10 year you need about a 10 years Jump on it and I
don't see that happening anywhere really We were
really losing There
has been a decrease in the number of funded
graduate positions graduate training positions
I think is compared to in the 80s whenever I think
that's when it peaked in veterinary medicine and
So that's gonna need, we're gonna need that
turnaround sometime in the future. Let's quit
with that. I found the sheet.